When a subclass inherits from
a superclass not everything is inherited.
As we saw,
those private fields were not inherited.
But there's a few other things
that are not inherited as well,
such as constructors.
Constructors are not
inherited technically,
they are not considered
as members of the class.
The members of the class are the fields
in the methods, all right?
So they are not inherited.
All of the public and
the protected members so the public and
protected fields, public and protected
methods those are indeed inherited.
But the private members are not, okay.
Also, if there are any final methods or
any final fields meaning they had
that word final in front of them.
They cannot be changed or
anything like that.
These are inherited but
they cannot be overridden.
That makes sense, right?
You said this is the final
implementation for this.
In the square class here, we were able
to use the fields size and length.
Remember, we did that in our code and
that's because we inherited
those from the Rectangle class.
And the reason that we were able to
inherit them is because we had to change
it, right?
To protect it in order to do so.
If they're marked as protected, public or
if there's no access modifier
at all it defaults to protected.
And so we will be able to inherit them.
If any of those were private then
square would not inherit it.
If it tried to use it as we saw,
you get a compilation error.
>> So if you want to explicitly
expose one of these methods for
a class you have to mark it public.
If you're not
>> Are protected.
Yes.
What's the difference between public and
protected?
>> Package access.
>> Package access or
not even so that's true but
also with inheritance too.
So even if I'm in a different package,
so for example rectangle is
in our objects package and
square is in our inheritance package.
But those fields are protected so
we're able to...
So basically,
if you're in the same package or
if you're a subclass then you'll
have access to protected stuff.
If you're not a subclass and
you're not in the same package,
you do not have access to protected stuff.
Public everyone has access.
Private no one has access but
that class, all right.
Okay, so let's talk about the access
modifiers a little bit more.
Notice for
squares calculate perimeter method.
It has a public access modifier.
So when we overrode this method,
we had to declare it as public as well.
If we were to try to change
it to anything stricter,
we would get an error.
So if I'm overriding a method it
has to be the same or less strict.
It cannot be more strict, all right.
Now it doesn't mean that
we can't change it right.
Like I said,
it could be something that is less strict.
So for example, a rectangle here if
we had this method be protected.
And then in square, we overrode it and
change it to public then that's fine.
That's fine to do.
>> Is there any particular
reason Java was set up that way?
Or you can't make it l more strict,
I guess?
>> So you're inheriting something but
then you're changing like
who has access to it.
I don't know.
It just feels wrong [LAUGH] feels like
a wrong thing to do.
I don't know like the exact reason.
But I know it's limiting access where that
wasn't what was intended
from the super class.